Okay.
So till the last part we have covered the initialize function that how we are going to initialize the
frame by creating this private void initialize function, setting the layout for the frame, setting
the panels are like putting up things inside the frame is done with the help of the panel.
We are adding panel for this height, this add or delete button, this tree and this info panel containing
in order, preorder and first order traversal of the tree.
Also, we have created a separate panel for the title, The Binary Search Visualization, which is going
to be the frame type.
So here you can see that this is containing our exit on close windows, exit on clause default of operation,
which will help us to exit through this application whenever we want.
So this was all about putting up things inside the frame.
Now our next concern is to like we have created button so we have to add action, listens to the button
and in order to do so we will use this override function or like override keyword.
So this override keyword helps us to extend this class to implement action.
Listener So this is based basically visualization class.
We are implementing action listener and listener on this class.
So in that order we have to use this override function to implement those changes in the main function.
So public void.
Action performed is going to be the name for the function.
Okay.
So yes and inside the argument we are going to pass action event.
That's the event for that specific button we are pressing.
Okay.
So we have created this action perform function now inside this function.
Suppose if the text field is enabled, so is enabled.
And.
After this.
You have to use this trying and catch block to like check if there are any kind of exceptions in the
text field.
So in data integer not passing.
So this passing is done.
In order to convert these integers in the form of first string format.
So to get text, we are getting the text, text for the data field, whatever to be added inside that
as a node.
Now if statement checking that this event has a data source or not.
So.
Yes, this is going to be a method and we will use this VPN.
And so suppose we have pressed this button and then we have to add that data inside that tree.
And also if there is a if, then there will be else.
So after this, if we are going to.
So, yes, here it was if and we have to close the safe here after the third data and again or as block.
So suppose if we then is not click, then definitely we have to delete that data.
So we are using delete data in that block.
So yes, the data will be deleted if the block is cleared.
Now coming out of this LS block, they have not set text and the set text is going to again set that
string as empty.
So this is how it is done.
If the get source is getting the source of the add button, then it will add that data to the BSD and
else it will delete that data from the BSD.
So we are going to create our dedicated add and delete function for the three.
So once this add button is click, then what is going to happen?
And similarly for the delete part also and yes, this text field is request focus and window.
So whenever a text is entered inside this text field, then of focus like this cursor will appear in
the text free later.
And if that is any kind of exception, suppose we have entered any other thing like not an integer.
Suppose we have entered any alphabet, then it will throw exception.
Please enter integer.
So this was all about this action performed function.
Now in the similar way we are going to again create a key list type of function which is going to listen
to the data entered by us in the form of integer.
So how this is going to work.
So this action performed was working for these two things, add button and delete button.
Now this key type is going to work for the events performed with the help of our keyboard, so we have
to enter only integers in that text field in order to add them inside the tree.
So suppose we enter anything like anything other than integers then this key type event will throw exception.
So public void.
Key.
He typed is going to be the name for this function and this will check that whether valid integers are
entered in the text field or not.
So he typed everything.
And yes, it is bracket.
He went as fast as an argument inside this function and this is going to take care inputs.
So if we not get quicker is the way to get the characters from the keyboard.
Yes, from the suggestions taking it and then using its method.
So if not like suppose this text field is in not enabled then.
We are going to simply return.
And.
Resist and return simply.
And after this, we have to check this statement.
So suppose the user has entered a character from keyboard.
Suppose our user enters small or capital.
So we have to use this single straight line.
For all statements.
So capital and.
US suppose Terminator like line Terminator.
So we have to check that.
If the user hasn't done any kind of alphabay, then what popup should appear to tell the user that?
Try entering the correct text.
Of course, like we only accept integers, so try inputting integers only.
So a string.
Data for the.
Since I did not get taxed.
And again.
A bracket.
After this, we are going to check this event continue.
So this is a method of checking the event.
Performed with the keyboard.
And if that data is not empty, then if statement we are going to use and pass that integer in the form
of like suppose the user has entered our integer so there will be no exception.
But if the user has entered this character, suppose or any terminator, then the pop up is going to
appear which will show.
Suppose you have entered a here.
Then this will show an exception that please enter an integer.
So we are going to do that inside this.
So if the user enters anything except integers, then a pop up will show like a dialog box will appear
showing a message that please enter integer.
Similarly, we are checking it for D, so we are checking it for two alphabets and separately and then
inside this else's block.
We have checked that if the character is greater than A or less than Z, then event consume is going
to be called.
And what this event is doing it will return that.
Please enter our integer also let us try checking it in the in our application.
So suppose I have entered an integer 56 and hit that.
Then it is successfully added and let us try to enter something other than integers and see that what
actually happens.
So here I am pressing any random alphabet from the keyboard and this message dialog box is a pairing
showing that please enter integer and once we hit.
Okay, so this is one now again try to enter any other alphabet.
Again, this pop up will appear showing that please enter integer.
So once we enter an integer it is working perfectly fine.
This text field is able to take integer inputs only and no alphabetical inputs or any special symbols
from your keyboard.
So this was all about this text field working like how it is taking inputs.
Only integer inputs are welcomed here and nothing, nothing other than integers like that should be
entered inside this text field.
So now that we have covered everything about adding panels inside the frame, whether it is the title,
the top left and top right, the tree panel and the info panel, we have created action listeners also
for this add and delete button.
We have also added action listener to this text field that how it is taking the inputs and if any invalid
input is given to it, then how it is going to show any message on the screen in the form of a dialog
box and anything.
Okay, it is gone now.
The next thing we are going to cover is adding a separate function for this add button inside our code.
We are going to give an add function and a delete function that how addition and deletion are going
to be done.
Suppose we try to add it in the.
Three.
So how it is added to the tree?
It is added.
Firstly, it is checked that it is less than the 500 or greater than if it is less than.
Then it will be added to the left subtree.
Similarly, we will use a recursive method to check that whether it is greater than this.
Then again come into its child.
Then if it is less than 250, then we will check for the left child.
So this method is going to be like non repetitive.
If the number is less than us some number then we are only going to check it for the left, subtree
and not the right one.
This is going to be a time saving method of course.
So we will write this add and delete functions wisely while keeping in mind that it should reduce the
time complexity for this algorithm.
We have to keep in mind that we have totally checked the left subtree if the number is less than the
parent, and then if it is greater than the parent.
Suppose we are trying to enter this.
How then?
Then it will only check that this 3000 is greater then.
And if it is better then then it will likely move this left subtree checking thing.
It will only come to this right subtree and check that whether it is greater than 750.
Then if it is greater than 715, then it will come to her and again check that it is greater than 1000
or not and it will simply add it to the right panel of the 1000.
So here it is done.
So we are going to write methods for add and delete in our next path.